# 12th October 2018
## Project Meeting
After the project meeting, it was decided to change the project slightly due to feasibility concerns.

It was noted that the specification itself wasn't focused enough, and therefore more focused specification objectives are needed.

As a result of this meeting, the following changes are to be made:

- Removal of the framework based components from the project, focusing only on the liveness tests in the first instance.
- The liveness tests will still be considered from a web-authentication based approach, but they will not be implemented into a wider system to begin with (this will happen either towards the end, or perhaps even as a step to be mentioned in the future works within the project paper).
-  Several liveness tests shall be considered and implemented using the standard technologies. These will be adjusted and the emphasis will be on evaluating them,
both as liveness tests, along with evaluating their effective deployment using Cloud/web strategies.

Specification wise, what this will mean:
- Several different liveness tests, from simple to more modern ML based ones.
- Different testing methods, both per method, and overall.
- Following NIST standards: how can we classify our system as an authentication method? 

Gantt Chart wise:
- Need to reconsider all the individual tasks, how long they will work, etc.
- Need to also look at having more than one task on the go at once, for maximum effect.
- We also need to stick to the Gantt Chart for estimating our time, so if we underestimate time required, then we'll have problems.
