# 17th October 2018 Notes:
Researched into different datasets that can be used.

## Datasets:

### NUAA Imposter Database
[Source](http://parnec.nuaa.edu.cn/xtan/data/nuaaimposterdb.html)

Low quality images gathered from cheap webcams. 15 subjects and 500 images per subject (at 30fps).

### Replay Attack Database
[Source](https://www.idiap.ch/dataset/replayattack)
This consists of 1300 video clips of photo and video attacks of 50 clients. Different lighting conditions are present.

The dataset is automatically subdivided into different sections (train, test, etc).

Length of the video is at least 9 seconds. Colour videos are produced, and the codec used is Motion JPEG with 25Hz framerate.

Two lighting conditions present:
- Controlled => Office light on, blinds down, background homogeneous
- Adverse => Blinds up, complex background, office lights out.

Several different types of attacks, both high resolution and low resolution and on mobile devices too.

Different sets:

- **Training set**: contains 60 real-accesses and 300 attacks under different lighting conditions;

- **Development set**: contains 60 real-accesses and 300 attacks under different lighting conditions;

- **Test set**: contains 80 real-accesses and 400 attacks under different lighting conditions;

- **Enrollment set**: contains 100 real-accesses under different lighting conditions, to be used **exclusively** for studying the baseline performance of face recognition systems.

### ROSE-Youtu Face liveness detection dataset
[Source](http://rose1.ntu.edu.sg/Datasets/faceLivenessDetection.asp)

Covers a large variety of camera models, attacks and contains a variation of different illumination conditions.

Consists of 4225 videos with 25 subjects in total. 5 devices used to collect the footage, all a mix of smartphones and tablets.

considers the standard 2D image attack from paper, a laptop screen, and masks.

### SiW Face Anti-spoofing database
[Source](http://cvlab.cse.msu.edu/spoof-in-the-wild-siw-face-anti-spoofing-database.html)

Live and spoof videos from 165 subjects. In total, about 4000 ish videos.

Each video roughly 15 seconds in length.

differnet devices, differnet illumination, different movements. Using print attacks only.

### Cifar-10/Cifar-100 Dataset
These are both not really Facial Recognition based datasets, but object classification
datasets. They contain many images, with various different types of objects, and their associated classes.