# 26th October 2018
## Project Lecture 1 - important notes:
### Important deadlines for next week
- Project spec for next week (already sent)
- Ethics form (also already sent)

### Aims and objectives
- Poster: 3rd May deadline. 10% of the module.
- Final Paper: 3rd May deadline. Half of the module.
- 30% of the module is the oral exam. It's all about how I present.
- Print poster through CIS (University give us credit).

### Oral Presentation
Use a powerpoint. You can just use the poster, but ppt might be better.

### Poster:
Hand this into the reception area after oral.

Then, after exams one can present the poster in the atrium. Voting for best poster (not marks, just for "fun")

### Specification:
Title, name, description, *preliminary preparation*, deliverables, and references.

### Overview of the topic:
- What is the area we're working in?
- What has already been done?
- what can be improved in our project?

### Research question
- What do we aim to answer and where do we focus? e..g do we focus on usability?
- This isn't important at this stage, but **ABSOLUTELY VITAL** in the final paper (this will be marked on, so therefore start now).
- Not necessarily a CS question, but answered using CS.

### Deadlines important:
- If we set the bar too high, and we go above this, we can be marked down by the examiner (not the supervisor)
=> hopefully improved on that now, but we'll see.

### Objectives:
- We need to tick all (or many) of the boxes.
- But also measurable. Details of what we are going to do (which we have done).
- and a time bound measure.

### Deliverables:
- follow from objectives.
- Measurable things
- milestones
- also three types (Basic, Intemediate, Advanced)

### Adjusting the plan
Plan will change. That's always going to be the case.
Need a logbook of things we did, tried, succeeded, failed.
Need to submit this **logbook** at the end of the year.
This logbook is hopefully the notes folder here on GitHub.
Then print/email.

Also, need to keep versions of the gantt chart as time goes by
- Adjust the scheduling of what we did, how we worked, and the resulting timeplan.
- might need to decide: do I try something different/skip it/come back later?

S L A C K   T I M E  needed.



